
Embedding agents in applications
Last Updated: 2025-11-14
IBM watsonx Orchestrate makes it easy to embed intelligent agents directly into your web applications
by using the embedded chat feature. It enables interactive, contextual conversations while maintaining
enterprise-grade security and flexibility.With embedded chat, you can:Agents connect with users through channels with entry points like websites, Slack workspaces, or other
messaging platforms. When you use the web chat channel, you embed your agent directly into a web
page, enabling dynamic, interactive conversations that boost engagement and productivity.
General considerations
Before you embed an agent into your web application, it’s important to prepare both the agent and the
application environment to ensure a smooth integration. Consider the following essential concepts:1.  Draft and the Live mode2.  Application setupHost your app on a server (local or cloud). For details on adding the embed snippet, see Procedure
to embed agents in applications.3.  Security configurationsIntegrate AI agents seamlessly into your web pages to create rich, interactive experiences.–Customize the UI and behavior to match your brand and user needs.–Handle advanced events securely, and work with both draft and live agents for testing and
production.–Use the Draft mode when you’re testing or making changes. In Draft mode, the agent is not fully
published, so you can safely experiment without affecting live users.
▪
Deploying the agent moves it from Draft to Live for production use, thus making it accessible to
your users.
▪
When you embed an agent into a web page, the embedded script you use depends on the
environment (Draft or Live).
▪
11/23/25, 12:51 PM Embedding agents in applications - IBM Documentation
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=agents-embedding-in-applications 1/4
Security is enabled by default in both Draft and Live environments but not configured. Until
configuration is complete, the embedded agent remains inactive. See Configuring security for
embedded chat for more details.
Procedure to embed agents in applications
You can customize your chat UI by embedding the agent. Start by embedding the agent in your draft
environment before moving to production.Steps to embed the agent:1.  Access the agent configuration:2.  Select the environment:3.  Copy the embed script:4.  Add the script to your web page:Example HTML structure:
Notes:
For IBM watsonx Orchestrate On-premises deployment:–Version 5.2.1: Copying the embed script from the agent UI is not supported. Use the ADK
docs to get the embed script. For more details, see Embedding Agent Web Chat.–Versions 5.2.2 and later: You can directly copy the embed scripts from the agent UI.–
Go to the agent configuration page.▪
Navigate to Channels > Embedded agent.▪
Use Draft mode for testing and previewing the embedded experience.▪
The Live tab remains disabled until the agent is deployed.▪
Click Copy to clipboard to copy the generated embed script.▪
Edit the HTML source of the page where you want the chat widget to appear.▪
Paste the embed script inside the <body> tag, as close as possible to the closing </body> tag
for optimal page load performance.
▪
Ensure the root element is present.▪
11/23/25, 12:51 PM Embedding agents in applications - IBM Documentation
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=agents-embedding-in-applications 2/4
5.  Preview the chat widget6.  Apply to multiple pages
Configuring security for embedded chat
To ensure secure communication between your application and IBM watsonx Orchestrate, the
embedded chat feature uses public-key cryptography and JWT-based authentication. These
mechanisms protect sensitive data and validate user identity during interactions.Security setup involves three key steps:
Understanding default security settings
Security is enabled by default. However, it is not configured initially. Until you complete the
configuration, the embedded agent remains inactive. Here’s what you need to know:See Customizing your embedded chat for setting up security.
Customizing your embedded chat
<body>
  <div id="root"></div>
  <script src="path-to-embed-script.js"></script></body>
Open the web page in your browser.▪
Verify that the chat widget appears and opens when clicked.▪
Paste the same embed script into each page where you want the widget.▪
Do not include the script multiple times on a page to avoid conflicts.▪
Generate RSA key pairs for IBM and your client application.–Configure JWT authentication for secure user identity.–Encrypt sensitive data by using IBM’s public key.–The embedded agent will not function until security setup is complete.–You must configure both IBM and client key pairs to establish secure communication.–Security can be disabled to allow anonymous access, but this is not recommended for sensitive use
cases.–
11/23/25, 12:51 PM Embedding agents in applications - IBM Documentation
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=agents-embedding-in-applications 3/4
After embedding your agent through the UI, you can extend functionality and customize the experience
using the Agent Development Kit (ADK).
Security configuration
See Embedded chat security for full details and setup instructions.
Automated security setup
You can simplify the process of securing your embedded agent integration by using the security
configuration tool. See Enabling security to automate key generation, JWT configuration, and
encryption.
Using context variables
To use context variables in embedded chat, include them inside the JWT token. You can add context
variables to a JWT token by using a JavaScript script. See Context variables for embedded chat for
more details.
Custom styling and layout
The watsonx Orchestrate embed supports a flexible layout object that enables you to control how and
where the chat UI appears on the page. See Customizing layout and Customizing styles for more
details.
Enable feedback
By default, thumbs-up and thumbs-down feedback options are disabled. You need to enable them
manually to collect user input on responses. See Enabling feedback for more details.
What to do next
After configuring your agent, the final step is to deploy it so it becomes available for users. Deployment
moves the agent from Draft to Live, making it available for users in production.See Deploying your agent for more details.
11/23/25, 12:51 PM Embedding agents in applications - IBM Documentation
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=agents-embedding-in-applications 4/4
